All right we're making great progress.
Please click here on inputs and analysis for Step 4.
This is my favorite part of the Course.
This is where we discuss our management team in a lot of detail and we find out where the gaps are with
our skill set and how to plug or address those gaps and so there's a lot going on here so I'm going
to make a little bit more room real estate wise up here by clicking this if you want you can minimize
this as well.
Take a second or two for that too to get smaller.
Or you can click here to get more room on the spreadsheet.
All right.
So first question here is basically it's it's asking you what your employee recruiting strategy is and
the more thorough you are with this section the more chance or a higher chance you'll have of making
the reader of your business plan really happy or potentially investing or just having a more favorable
outlook in general and a lot of these questions are optional.
You don't have to answer them.
But I recommend doing so.
Cath and the whole goal of this business plan process is to answer every single question every kind
of investor.
Ever think about asking us because it really reflects positively upon us and shows how thoughtful we
are with our whole process and gives our reader better a better confidence in our ability to execute
you know ideas are commodities.
Execution is not as Mark Cuban who once famously said so so the reason that management is here and not
way later on is because a lot of the best investors know that a great company comes down to a great
managed team first and everything else.
It doesn't really matter.
Relatively speaking OK.
So let's jump right in.
So the employee recruiting strategy how do you recruit employees if you want to you can read my answer
and write something similar with your own spin to it.
Obviously Next up we've got employee retention strategy.
I mean how are you going to deal with potential turnover and how you can incentivize people so that
everybody works together as a team.
You might talk about stock options here if applicable.
OK.
And so as always enter your answers please here in the white box and I wrote here and this is just kind
of informational Did you look at the profiles of the competition's employees on LinkedIn or in other
web sites in general even on the company's own Web site if you can get it there.
What do you think about the skills that your competitors employees have when when you look to build
out your team or articulate what your team has skill wise.
And this is going to help us a lot more with the questions that we have below.
Okay.
It's this part is kind of tricky because you have to humbly criticize yourself and your management team
and people that work with you to find out what the weaknesses are because I promise you that anybody
that's going to seriously consider investing in your company or partnering with you etc. that's reading
this business plan we'll have those questions anyway or those thoughts.
And if you kind of nip it in the bud early on then we will be able to deal with those gaps.
I'll explain how in a second.
Okay.
So I'd given your strengths.
Again this is all fictional stuff here.
I did not get in the HB.
That's Harvard Business School and two thirds of HB is b.s. by the way.
But I wrote it down there even though I rejected it.
All right.
So I wrote down what my weaknesses are and this is just weaknesses of Tony shark or sample entrepreneurs
here.
What's your job title.
And this is for you.
So I'm assuming you're CEO and founder co-founder and here is where we write about our employees.
OK.
So our first employee.
So I pulled this directly over from what we wrote in in the beginning part of the Course here.
All right.
So I wrote down Scarlett Johansson or hand-wrote and sorry sorry.
There are lawyers listening.
I it's housecarl Joseph Knot's Carl transend and I clicked it and I went back to where I wrote that.
Isn't that pretty cool.
Pulls effen there and the logic and what you see in your cells will look different because you have
different employee names.
If you have employees at all.
OK so let me click here to go back.
Or I can actually go over here to go directly there to step 4.
And I like clicking here because sometimes it can get lost in the document.
How.
So if I click this it always jumps back to the top.
OK.
So if you ever lost way way down here click that goes back to the top.
If you don't want to jump back to the top the tab and you can just click these tabs down here.
OK.
All right let's go back down here to where we had scarlet.
Hint hint Jozen for example.
And you can click here to go back to where you entered in information about these employees so this
person here used to be married to Scarlett Henchoz hurts Johanson Ryan Reynolds.
But I'm using Ryan Reynolds by the way.
But if you click here it goes back to where we entered in this employee's information right here.
OK.
No more jumping around Chris.
I'll get right down to it.
And Ryan Reynolds by the way is a fellow Canadian acap.
Then you have to write down what the strengths are and weaknesses of all your employees.
If you have employees and if you don't have employees then this box here is going to tell you to please
scroll down and ignore that question OK this logic based on whether or not you wrote the name of somebody
here on this previous tab I clicked that by Access sorry.
Let me go back here.
The older I get the better I was.
Here we go.
I know I use that joke too much.
OK.
And these are just you write in the title for each employee if you have entered employees earlier so
scarlet and Joe since title is Vice President of Sales and Marketing your title or my title in this
case there are 20 sharks as CEO and founder.
And this is just dummy data pulled directly from that previous or this is just Armide I'm sorry that
I entered in strength to weaknesses too I can't spell as you can see.
So Ryan Reynolds title is this entry in your tiles there.
And then just go all the way down and if you have people that is that you know that are filling those
roles again everybody is different when they when they write these business plans.
OK so I wrote down a couple of other sample titles here and if you enter in sample titles real tiles
I should say then you will see them appear in the next part here and I'll show you that there's a lot
going on here but a lot of fun too.
OK so for example here if I click here you'll see that it's got here the name of the person in the title
and that title is populated here.
If you entered in on that previous tap.
OK.
So for here because they entered into a bunch of sample employees they appear here and that's your sample
name here.
But I don't see any titles because you read them yet.
In the previous tab and you haven't written in the BIOS either yet.
I'll get to that in a second.
OK.
But whatever employee I select here the buyer is automatically going to be pulled through here.
So if I go to Ryan Reynolds and I click that it pulls in Ryan Reynolds and his sample bio there that
picture doesn't change.
OK.
Let's go back to Seow there.
Let's just it.
Let's go back to inputs now for management.
And so enter all that in.
And once you have entered it in the strengths and weaknesses in the titles of every employee.
And again it will be pulled over here automatically for you.
So Syria could then again by accident but once you do that these fields here will be populated for you.
And if you have an engine and names for those employees and click on this again which I want to for
all your employees this is the ninth employee for example.
Then what happens is if you don't click on it this field will look different it'll say please skip this
question.
OK.
And then for this question here based on your answer above do you think there are any gaps in the skill
sets of the people on your team including yourself.
Okay so what are you missing.
And this is important because again whoever is reading this document will uncover that anyway or might
think that you want to be preemptive it's the son suing the art of war one liner.
It's kind of cheesy but every Battlezone enforcement thought you want to be preemptive and just anticipate
what questions that readers might have.
And remember who your target reader is on this business plan.
OK.
And you can click here to go and change your target reader is back in step one so fun I can play with
those.
This all in itself is neat.
All right.
And I didn't answer all these questions.
It would have been just a dummy day anyway.
But based on your answer to that previous question meaning what the gaps are that you might have a good
idea of which kind of people you want to hire or bring on to your teams that will fill those gaps.
Okay.
And and what I'd like to personally do I run a pretty lean company always I always have very few employees
and I outsource a ton of stuff whenever I'm not good at.
I outsource if I don't believe that it makes sense to have somebody come in in-house and work with me.
I outsource a lot of stuff.
It's part of my whole whatever lean methodology you teach their own.
OK.
So you can read that.
OK here's where it gets fun.
Ok now that we know what skills we need to add we can start to network to get people to be on our board
of advisors.
And so what I recommend doing is if you want to download a book I wrote on how to network and I promise
you I put my reputation on the line.
This will help you I promise.
So you can go to Hoeren ventures dot com that's all lowercase slash actually is the home page Harroun
venture's dot com all lowercase and you can download a book there you'll see called networking and it's
over 200 pages and there's a couple of hours of free YouTube videos it's all free.
That will help you network to meet people that you want to have join your board.
OK.
If you want more details on other topics is all free stuff just on YouTube.
You can go here like how to get mentors in when you watch this.
This will also help you with how to get you know how to get board advisors in and how to get customers
how to meet any CEO rates.
It's a really cool methodology and simple way I have here I can meet with any CEO and so can you.
So can you just watch that video if you care to learn about that.
How do you get free publicity.
This will help you with your marketing strategy a lot.
A lot of this is just you know side no details on what to do to help you.
What is the board.
How does that work.
You can click there and learn more about that as well.
How do you save money with taxes with your business.
All that stuff there's there's a lot a lot of cool stuff in here that I've learned through failure over
the years that I really think can help you how to motivate people on your team.
What are venture capitalists doing all that stuff to do before your next meeting.
It'll just help actually.
Please watch this if you get a chance because it'll help you a lot before you meet with anybody in business.
I promise you your promise.
OK.
And this is part of I create a blog every day and I promised my students I would do it every day for
the next 10 years.
And because I said it I have to do it now just like my weekly webcast if you want to join me ask questions
about your business model.
I'm doing it every Thursday for a couple of hours every Thursday at a minimum every single week for
ever.
It's all it.
I want to help you cut in so when you think about border advisers and you want to add them and you start
setting up these networking meetings using the methodology I taught in my book.
Just just remember that people that maybe are older and you have a similar background or and that are
even more successful than you are because they're old and you whatever they want to help you you just
have to ask them.
And so do an advanced search on LinkedIn if you want to actually do that.
Go to LinkedIn with you here.
And again we go to LinkedIn to show you how to network.
I have this set up so that all these different tabs open up so I can send my daily blog and all these
different places whatever.
So I'll just go here to let's go to Linked-In
it so here what you can do in LinkedIn if you want is you can search for people that are connected to
you or not connect to you a lot of times they use second degree meaning people that are going to be
meeting people that I'm not connected to.
And I'll do a search on people that have something in common with me.
So let's just say that I want to get a customer or somebody on my board that works at Facebook for example.
OK.
And having that logo will look amazing on your slides your presentation slides if you want to do that.
And also in your business plan document.
So let's say I want people from Facebook to be on my board and let's say that I don't know I went to
McGill University so I'll click here and click Apply and I'll do a quick search.
OK.
And these people have McGill somewhere in the resume or in their LinkedIn profile.
So let's click through list click here on this person Dan for example looks like he went to McGill University.
OK.
And I went to McGill University as well.
And if I send a message out to him maybe he'll meet with me and then maybe we can meet up and while
he graduate four years before I do I did at McGill.
And so what you would do is you can connect with them or you can message them.
I recommend messaging them.
OK so say I want the enemy of my board.
So the subject line I write is this high tech that I write this.
Exactly.
OK.
I'm sorry his name is Ian KIPP Believe.
I read that wrong.
So sorry about that.
I say it's not that great.
Keep it real look here.
Container record here.
All right Ian.
Hope all is well.
I also went to McGill and I live here in the Bay Area.
Please let me know if you have time for a coffee in the next few weeks.
Thanks a lot press and in order to send these you have to pay.
I think maybe it's a 20 or 30 bucks a month.
I can remember I pay the premium once so I can do this 45 times.
And if you send a message to somebody and they answer then you don't get it doesn't count as one in
meals that you've used.
And so I'm not going to click send.
This is just an example.
But if I sent this to Ian dance or if I said and he would read it because I.
I promise you you have opened every single message that's ever been sent to you on LinkedIn because
it how a little flag here I read all my messages is the best way to reach me and actually on my webcast
to the weekly.
And I love that method.
But I would send this to him.
I would write the words please.
Thank you.
And something we have in common.
And he'll likely answer hopefully knock on wood knocking on my head and we'll meet up.
And then during that meeting you know for the first half we'll talk about what we have in common.
You know McGill University we went to whatever up in Montreal We'll talk about maybe some restaurants
that we used to go to there yada yada.
And then he'll probably and this always happens with me.
They'll probably very politely half way through the meeting say why are we meeting in a nice way.
And then this is where I can tell him about my business model and then ask for advice and then ask him
is it OK if I maybe add you as an adviser and that people say yes because they want to help you they
want to help you.
And so if you just picture yourself 20 years in the future and you're 20 you're more successful you
are now in somebody 20 years younger than you.
Reaches out to you that reminds you of them are you going to meet them if they if they reach out.
Probably yes because you'd love helping yourself and helping others.
You just got to ask and most people don't do this and that's a wonderful thing because from a competitive
perspective you will stand out versus anybody else.
So try this to add people to your board.
OK.
I promise you it works exceptionally well.
I'm not going to send that to to Ian.
Sorry for calling you Dan. I don't know you I.
Anyway I'm insulted by the way he's written his name.
All right.
Keep it real and keep it fun.
And then what you can do is before you select who your advisers are you can write this optional.
What sector do you want them to be in.
Well maybe it's technology what companies would be ideal for them to be.
From Facebook all right here looks good right.
The Logos and all that stuff whatever.
And every company is different.
And then Antolin and so a couple of people so I put in here and a bunch of others I'd look at I'd send
in mail said like I showed you there over LinkedIn.
And then when they say yes you put their name down here and so there's this guy I reached out to named
Gates William and he worked at this company called Microsoft.
And I'm just kidding.
But anyway this is just sample and what you can do is you can get these logos from Facebook LinkedIn
you paste them here and there images as well and use link to images.
I going show you is pretty cool.
And the show's whole process so let's say I search for this is not the same guy as Gates Bill but so
and then what you do is you you you can click on this can and then you copy it's and when you copy that
image let's say that this person is said and said yes don't paste it yet in here because this is Amerge
cell next I will get all confused and stuff you know scroll over here.
Pick any self as a matter and then click paste and then it will paste in that picture.
Obviously it's a lot bigger.
We make it smaller and then we get it ready to put on our business plan and our shop run through this
to be kind of fun.
All right so let me just scroll down here and I'll drag this guy that looks like Bill Gates over on
the side here and I've selected and just make it smaller or whatever and then just kind of drag it over
here.
I know there's probably an easier way to do it.
But anyway I want to show you live how I'm doing it.
I want to make mistakes too in real time just to show you.
How I'm trying to keep it real.
OK.
So you bring this over and we do this for every single employee to show you how in a second.
And for every single board advisor or board member whatever that says yes.
And to learn more.
The tween board advisory board mentor and staffing go up here and watch my video I made on on boards
and so here we go.
So right so I got him here.
And what I recommend is keep it try to keep the size the same as the ones I've done so you know you'll
put it in there.
Right.
So.
And there's many other ways to copy this stuff as well you don't have to paste it into Excel you can
use other programs if you want to change your pictures around a bit.
And I just kind of drag and drop it and make it the same size make them all the same size just for consistency.
And you'll see where I'm going with it since that's pretty cool.
And then if you wanted to you can even select the image I have and you can find out what the dimensions
are.
1.10 pipe one point seventy five.
OK so maybe I'll make this the exact same size for all and see type here.
One point seventy five and make sure that that is selected there.
And then there he gets close enough it's good enough OK.
So we've got a picture of the first board advisor that said yes after we met with him.